add documentation for the observability-platform api (#2485)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/overview/observability/observability-platform-api/_index.md

---
title: "Observability Platform API"
linkTitle: Observability Platform API
description: Documentation on the observability-platform API architecture deployed and maintained by Giant Swarm.
weight: 80
menu:
  principal:
    identifier: overview-observability-platform-api

>     parent: overview-observability

Reviewer: I would actually add it not to the overview section, but to the tutorial section, because it is quite a niché functionality that needs a good maturity in observability. I wouldn't want to advertise it when one just wants to get an overview. So let's add it to tutorials/observability - what do you think?

user_questions:
  - What is the observability-platform API architecture?
  - What is the use of observability-platform API?
  - How may I use the observability-platform API?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2025-02-10
---

The following page describes the concept of the Observability Platform API

> ## Table of contents

Reviewer: I guess with the simplified structure proposed you need to adapt this then if you accept it :D

Reviewer 2: Please remove the table of content we decided to not include in official docs :)

Author: Sure, that's done :)

* [Context](#context)
* [Architecture](#architecture)
* [Global overview](#global-overview)
  * [How it works](#how-it-works)
    * [Read path](#read-path)
    * [Write path](#write-path)
* [Adding datasources](#adding-datasources)
* [Limitations](#limitations)

> ## Context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What it is
```

The observability platform allows customers to ingest their observability data (metrics and logs) from inside the clusters into our platform by default.

The `observability platform API` is an additional component that is a part of the platform, and it allows customers to ingest their logs (for now) from outside their clusters into our observability platform. Moreover, it also allows them to access our own observability data through their own Grafana running on their premises.

Its main objectives are to be able to:

* provide a secure access to our observability platform and reduce the attack surface.
* allow customers to access our observability data and to send their own.
* sanitize (sampling, relabelling, ...) observability data before it reaches our backends.
* support OTLP (OpenTelemetry).

> ## Architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How it works
```

> ### Global overview

Reviewer: I think we can savely remove this subtitle with the suggestions below reducing the complexity of the table of contents

> Here is a graph showing the general architecture for the API :

Author: I updated the text with your suggestion but switched `shared domain` for `shared host` as mentioned in my previous comment.

> ![api architecture](./observability-platform-api-graph.png)

Reviewer: You might want to adapt the diagram, because the domain currently ends with the `gigantic.io` domain - which will just confuse people. It should be the same pattern that we have in the step-by-step guide down below, wdyt?

### How it works

Let's explore the 2 main workflows from the customer's perspective.

#### Read path

> Let's consider the following situation : a customer wants to access Giant Swarm observability data from his own Grafana running on his premises.

Reviewer: This is a very precise use case - but not the only one we support here, right? 
I added this as an example in the general context/introduction of the API, so we don't need it here.

> To do so, the customer will first log into the Grafana instance using the OIDC provider hosted on his premises. Once authenticated, he will perform a query from the "Explore" panel or simply use dashboards which in any case will trigger a request sent to the Observability Platform API url.

Reviewer: Since the OIDC provider is also needed to ingest data I pulled it out up above to be a general prerequisite outside of this exact example.

> There, depending on the path the requests is trying to access (i.e either trying to access logs or metrics) it will go through one of 2 ingresses sharing the same host : one in the loki namespace and the other in the mimir one. Note that we decided to have 2 ingresses sharing the same host instead of having 1 ingress handling all paths because usually, ingresses only forward requests in the same namespace they are deployed in. There are ways to go around this, but those are a bit tricky and definitely not straight forward.

Reviewer: I think this is a very technical detail that adds only limited value for the customer, but adds "more text" to go through, if you know what i mean? Customers usually read through docs more interested in "getting something done" instead of needing to know every detail. Especially that something is tricky is not interesting for customers. That's why they pay us money to not worry about the tricky bits :) So let's leave that out, wdyt?

> Upon reaching the correct ingress, the request will need to be authenticated before being forwarded. This is done through a nginx annotation : `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` which value is the customer OIDC provider ingress' url. As the requests coming from Grafana forwards the user's OAuth identity through the use of a token, the Giant Swarm ingress only make sure that the incoming request's token matches an allowed user in the OIDC provider.

Reviewer: as this annotation is nothing a customer has to worry about, but we setup for them I just added the note that they need to provision us with the oidc provider details and we setup the rest. I think this again is just technical details that might be interesting for the intranet or README but not necessarily the public docs. WDYT?

> Moreover, the ingress will verify that the incoming requests are using the `X-Scope-OrgId` HTTP headers (tenant information). If not, the request will be denied.

Reviewer: I added the need to the tenant ID and a link to the further explanation of our tenant concept up above on the same line as the OIDC token, because they both are requirements for read and wirte paths, right? So it is covered and not needed here.

> Upon authentication, the request is then forwarded to either the `loki-gateway` or `mimir-gateway` (depending if the query is looking for logs or metrics) components which are nginx servers respectively fronting the loki and mimir clusters. Those gateway components then finally forward the request to the read components.

Reviewer: Again...very technical details customers can also just read from the diagram if they are interested in it (or ask us). This doesn't add too much value if you just want to read data from somewhere.

That's it, the user now has access to the query's output.

#### Write path

> Let's consider the following situation : a customer's logging agent running on his premises want to send its data to the Giant Swarm Observability Platform.

Reviewer: Here again: very precise use case, that might not match with what the customer is actually looking for. Keep it as an example, but do not build the entire documentation on one specific use case because this might irritate some customers. Keep it general so they can put it above any use case they can imagine with it.

> The workflow is quite similar as the one described for the read path. The main difference is in the fact that the requests will go through another ingress in the monitoring namespace which fronts a specifically tuned alloy instance, deployed via the [alloy-gateway-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/alloy-gateway-app).

Reviewer: Since it's so similar I put both together on the same level, just noting the alloy gateway in the architecture details above the diagram. I don't think the link to the app is too critical, since that's our worry, it's what we get paid for. And they can find it on their own if they really want to based on the information in the diagram. So I think this is covered as well with my suggestions

Once authenticated, the request will thus go through the `alloy-gateway` which will forward it to the `loki-gateway` and then in turn the `loki-write` components.

> This additional step was added to ensure that we support OTLP.

Reviewer: Aaand I added this part in my suggestion with the introduction of the alloy gateway above the architecture diagram.

> ## Adding datasources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The observability platform API as Grafana datasource
```

> In order for one to use the observability-platform API's read path, the most straight-forward way is to add a datasource in one's Grafana pointing towards it. Here is a step-by-step guide on how to do it :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One use case for the `observability platform API` is to explore the observability platforms data in a self-managed Grafana. Our recommended way of connecting a Grafana instance to the `observability platform API` is to add a datasource in the Grafana instance pointing towards the API.

Here is a step-by-step guide on how to do it :
```

> * in the `Connection` section, write the observability-platform API url which always be `https://observability.<domain_name>`. Replace the `<domain_name>` placeholder with the actual domain name of your installation.

Reviewer: Please use a numbered list for this step by step guide. That's just a cleaner pattern :) 

Plus: 
```suggestion
1. in the `Connection` section, set the `observability-platform API` domain as URL. The API follows the pattern of adding the `observability`-subdomain to your installations base domain. This looks like `https://observability.<domain_name>` while you need to replace the `<domain_name>` placeholder with the actual domain name of your installation. **Please note**: if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url, making it: `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`.
```

You can use multiple sentences here making it easier to read. And again: Keep it simple :) Always expect the potentially most stupid customer to read this :D

![datasource url](./datasource-url.png)

> Please note that if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url (i.e the final url will be of the following form : `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`).

Reviewer: If you have this as a paragraph outside the numbered list I think the spacing will look weird. So I'll just add it to the suggestion up top.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * In the `Authentication` section, select the `Forward OAuth Identity` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `Authentication` section, select the `Forward OAuth Identity` option.
```

![datasource authentication](./datasource-authentication.png)

> * Sill in the `Authentication` section, add a HTTP header :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Fill in the `Authentication` section, add the required `X-Scope-OrgID`. Make sure the value of the `X-Scope-OrgID` header is an existing tenant that actually holds the data you're interested in. For example, to access Giant Swarm managed logs the value of this  header should be `giantswarm`, for metrics it should be `anynomous`. You can learn more about our tenant concept in [multi-tenancy in the observability platform.]({{< relref "/tutorials/observability/multi-tenancy/" >}})
```

Reviewer: What is the value of the tenant header we need for the default org? That might for both be the way better example than exposing the giant swarm one :D Also we might want to think about how we can secure individual tenant reads, so that a team that shouldn't have access to our giantswarm data suddenly can see them through setting up their own grafana and using the api only because another team had the api for an actual valid reason.

![datasource headers](./datasource-headers.png)

The header will always be `X-Scope-OrgID` but the value will differ depending on whether you are adding a Loki or Mimir/Prometheus datasource. The default value to access Giant Swarm managed logs should be `giantswarm` and metrics should be `anynomous`. The value of the header for the data you ingest depends on what you configured as a tenant upon ingestion.

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: I think we have that clear with the note in the introduction of the API itself, so we can remove this here as well, since it only duplicates that info. WDYT?

---
title: "Observability Platform API"
linkTitle: Observability Platform API
description: Documentation on the observability-platform API architecture deployed and maintained by Giant Swarm.
weight: 80
menu:
  principal:
    identifier: overview-observability-platform-api
    parent: overview-observability
user_questions:
  - What is the observability-platform API architecture?
  - What is the use of observability-platform API?
  - How may I use the observability-platform API?
aliases:

>   - /getting-started/observability/logging/obserbality-platform-api

Reviewer 3: You do not need the alias

Author: Removed it

That's it, the user now has access to the query's output.

#### Write path

Let's consider the following situation : a customer's logging agent running on his premises want to send its data to the Giant Swarm Observability Platform.

The workflow is quite similar as the one described for the read path. The main difference is in the fact that the requests will go through another ingress in the monitoring namespace which fronts a specifically tuned alloy instance, deployed via the [alloy-gateway-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/alloy-gateway-app).

Once authenticated, the request will thus go through the `alloy-gateway` which will forward it to the `loki-gateway` and then in turn the `loki-write` components.

This additional step was added to ensure that we support OTLP.

## Adding datasources

In order for one to use the observability-platform API's read path, the most straight-forward way is to add a datasource in one's grafana pointing towards it. Here is a step-by-step guide on how to do it :

> * in the `Connection` section, write the observability-platform API url which always be `https://observability.<domain_name>`. Replace the `<domain_name>` placeholder with the actual domain name of your installation.

Reviewer 3: I think we have some existing schemes for domain_name @pipo02mix maybe you remember?

Reviewer 3: If not, you should be able to find it on the ingress tutorial IIRC

Reviewer 2: I guess you mean [this page](https://docs.giantswarm.io/tutorials/connectivity/ingress/exposing-workloads/)?

![datasource url](./datasource-url.png)

Please note that if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url (i.e the final url will be of the following form : `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`).

* In the `Authentication` section, select the `Forward OAuth Identity` option.

![datasource authentication](./datasource-authentication.png)

* Sill in the `Authentication` section, add a HTTP header :

![datasource headers](./datasource-headers.png)

> The header will always be `X-Scope-OrgID` but the value will differ depending on whether you are adding a Loki or Mimir/Prometheus datasource. AS of now, for loki the value will be `anonymous` whereas for Mimir/Prometheus it will be `giantswarm`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The header will always be `X-Scope-OrgID` but the value will differ depending on whether you are adding a Loki or Mimir/Prometheus datasource. The default value to access Giant Swarm managed logs should be `giantswarm` and metrics should be `anynomous`. The value of the header for the data you ingest depends on what you configured as a tenant upon ingestion.
```

---
title: "Observability Platform API"
linkTitle: Observability Platform API
description: Documentation on the observability-platform API architecture deployed and maintained by Giant Swarm.
weight: 80
menu:
  principal:
    identifier: overview-observability-platform-api
    parent: overview-observability
user_questions:
  - What is the observability-platform API?
  - What is the observability-platform API for?
  - How to use the observability-platform API?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2025-02-10
---

The following page describes the concept of the Observability Platform API

## Table of contents

* [Context](#context)
* [Architecture](#architecture)
* [Global overview](#global-overview)
  * [How it works](#how-it-works)
    * [Read path](#read-path)
    * [Write path](#write-path)
* [Adding datasources](#adding-datasources)
* [Limitations](#limitations)

## What it is

> The observability platform already ingests and allows to explore system and application observability data from inside Giant Swarm managed clusters by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The observability platform ingests and allows to explore system and application observability data from inside Giant Swarm managed clusters by default.
```

The `observability platform API` opens up the observability platform to be used from the outside - which means any resource not managed by Giant Swarm. You can ingest observability data from any source by sending them to the `observability platform API`. Additionally the API allows to query observability data from wherever you want. 

This allows you to for example ingest observability data from a SaaS-Database that might be a dependency of one of your workloads on a Giant Swarm managed cluster. Or you could explore the observability platforms data from your own, remote Grafana instance or any other observability tooling.

**Note:** At this point the `observability platform API` only allows the ingestion of logs and events. The ingestion of metrics will follow in a later release. Keep an eye on our [changes and releases]({{< relref "/changes/observability-platform/" >}}) or this document for updates.

The `observability platform API`s main objectives are to:

> * provide a secure access to our observability platform from outside of Giant Swarm managed clusters.
> * enable you to ingest and access observability data from anywhere.
> * sanitize (sampling, relabelling, ...) observability data to align with our general data standards in the observability platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* provide a secure access to our observability platform from outside of Giant Swarm managed clusters.
* enable you to ingest and access observability data from anywhere.
* sanitize (sampling, relabelling, etc) observability data to align with our general data standards in the observability platform.
```

* support for the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP).

## How it works

### Global overview

Here is a graph showing the general architecture for the API :

![api architecture](./observability-platform-api-graph.png)

### How it works

Let's explore the 2 main workflows from the customer's perspective.

#### Read path

Let's consider the following situation : a customer wants to access Giant Swarm observability data from his own Grafana running on his premises.

> To do so, the customer will first log into the Grafana instance using the OIDC provider hosted on his premises. Once authenticated, he will perform a query from the "Explore" panel or simply use dashboards which in any case will trigger a request sent to the Observability Platform API url.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, the customer will first log into the Grafana instance using the OIDC provider hosted on his premises. Once authenticated, he will perform a query from the "Explore" panel or use dashboards, which, in any case, will trigger a request sent to the Observability Platform API address.
```

> There, depending on the path the requests is trying to access (i.e either trying to access logs or metrics) it will go through one of 2 ingresses sharing the same host : one in the loki namespace and the other in the mimir one. Note that we decided to have 2 ingresses sharing the same host instead of having 1 ingress handling all paths because usually, ingresses only forward requests in the same namespace they are deployed in. There are ways to go around this, but those are a bit tricky and definitely not straight forward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There, depending on the path the request is trying to access (i.e. either trying to access logs or metrics), it will go through one of two ingresses sharing the same host: one in the Loki namespace and the other in the Mimir one. Note that we decided to have two ingresses sharing the same host instead of having one ingress handling all paths because, usually, ingresses only forward requests in the same namespace in which they are deployed. There are ways to go around this, but those are a bit tricky and not straightforward.
```

> Upon reaching the correct ingress, the request will need to be authenticated before being forwarded. This is done through a nginx annotation : `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` which value is the customer OIDC provider ingress' url. As the requests coming from Grafana forwards the user's OAuth identity through the use of a token, the Giant Swarm ingress only make sure that the incoming request's token matches an allowed user in the OIDC provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon reaching the correct ingress, the request must be authenticated before being forwarded. This is done through an nginx annotation: `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` whose value is the customer OIDC provider ingress' url. As the requests coming from Grafana forward the user's OAuth identity through the use of a token, the Giant Swarm ingress only makes sure that the incoming request's token matches an allowed user in the OIDC provider.
```

Moreover, the ingress will verify that the incoming requests are using the `X-Scope-OrgId` HTTP headers (tenant information). If not, the request will be denied.

> Upon authentication, the request is then forwarded to either the `loki-gateway` or `mimir-gateway` (depending if the query is looking for logs or metrics) components which are nginx servers respectively fronting the loki and mimir clusters. Those gateway components then finally forward the request to the read components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon authentication, the request is forwarded to either the `loki-gateway` or `mimir-gateway` components (depending on whether the query is looking for logs or metrics), which are nginx servers fronting the Loki and Mimir clusters. Those gateway components then finally forward the request to the read components.
```

---
title: "Observability Platform API"
linkTitle: Observability Platform API
description: Documentation on the observability-platform API architecture deployed and maintained by Giant Swarm.
weight: 80
menu:
  principal:
    identifier: overview-observability-platform-api
    parent: overview-observability
user_questions:
  - What is the observability-platform API?
  - What is the observability-platform API for?
  - How to use the observability-platform API?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2025-02-10
---

The following page describes the concept of the Observability Platform API

## What it is

The observability platform ingests and allows to explore system and application observability data from inside Giant Swarm managed clusters by default.

The `observability platform API` opens up the observability platform to be used from the outside - which means any resource not managed by Giant Swarm. You can ingest observability data from any source by sending them to the `observability platform API`. Additionally the API allows to query observability data from wherever you want.

> With this you can ingest observability data from, for example, a SaaS-Database that might be a dependency of one of your workloads on a Giant Swarm managed cluster. Or you could explore the observability platforms data from your own, remote Grafana instance or any other observability tooling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this you can ingest observability data from, for example, a SaaS-Database that might be a dependency of one of your workloads on a Giant Swarm managed cluster. You could also explore the observability platform data from your own remote Grafana instance or any other observability tooling.
```

**Note:** At this point the `observability platform API` only allows the ingestion of logs and events. The ingestion of metrics will follow in a later release. Keep an eye on our [changes and releases]({{< relref "/changes/observability-platform/" >}}) or this document for updates.

The `observability platform API`s main objectives are to:

* enable you to securely ingest and access observability data in our observability platform from anywhere - also from outside of Giant Swarm managed clusters.
* sanitize (sampling, relabelling, etc.) observability data to align with our general data standards in the observability platform.

> * support for the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP).

Reviewer 2: I don't get the last point; what do you mean? Our API is implementing OTLP?

Author: Basically the API supports OTLP for logs thanks to us using alloy as a "gateway" in the write path so customers can send OTLP data to our backend.

You can see the overall architecture of the API in the following diagram:

![api architecture](./observability-platform-api-graph.png)

**Important:** As the `observability platform API` uses an OIDC provider to authenticate requests against it you first need to provide the details of an OIDC provider to use for the APIs authentication. We will then setup the `observability platform API` accordingly.

Any request against the API needs to include a **valid OIDC token**.  Additionally you need to add an **existing tenant** in the `X-Scope-OrgId` HTTP header. Any data send to the API with non-existent tenants IDs will be dropped and not ingested into the platform. You can learn more about our tenant concept in [multi-tenancy in the observability platform.]({{< relref "/tutorials/observability/multi-tenancy/" >}})

## The observability platform API as Grafana datasource

One use case for the `observability platform API` is to explore the observability platforms data in a self-managed Grafana. Our recommended way of connecting a Grafana instance to the `observability platform API` is to add a datasource in the Grafana instance pointing towards the API.

> Here is a step-by-step guide on how to do it :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a step-by-step guide on how to do it:
```

> 1. in the `Connection` section, set the `observability-platform API` domain as URL. The API follows the pattern of adding the `observability`-subdomain to your installations base domain. This looks like `https://observability.<domain_name>` while you need to replace the `<domain_name>` placeholder with the actual domain name of your installation. **Please note**: if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url, making it: `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`. Please note that if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url (i.e the final url will be of the following form : `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the `Connection` section, set the `observability-platform API` domain as the URL. The API follows the pattern of adding the `observability`-subdomain to your installation base domain. This looks like `https://observability.<domain_name>`, while you need to replace the `<domain_name>` placeholder with the actual domain name of your installation. **Please note**: if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url, making it: `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`. Please note that if you're adding a Mimir or Prometheus datasource, you will have to add the `/prometheus` suffix to the url (i.e the final url will be of the following form : `https://observability.<domain_name>/prometheus`).
```

---
title: "Observability Platform API"
linkTitle: Observability Platform API
description: Documentation on the observability-platform API architecture deployed and maintained by Giant Swarm.
weight: 80
menu:
  principal:
    identifier: overview-observability-platform-api
    parent: overview-observability
user_questions:
  - What is the observability-platform API?
  - What is the observability-platform API for?
  - How to use the observability-platform API?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2025-02-10
---

The following page describes the concept of the Observability Platform API

## What it is

The observability platform ingests and allows to explore system and application observability data from inside Giant Swarm managed clusters by default.

> The `observability platform API` opens up the observability platform to be used from the outside - which means any resource not managed by Giant Swarm. You can ingest observability data from any source by sending them to the `observability platform API`. Additionally the API allows to query observability data from wherever you want. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `observability platform API` opens up the observability platform to be used from the outside - which means any resource not managed by Giant Swarm. You can ingest observability data from any source by sending them to the `observability platform API`. Additionally the API allows to query observability data from wherever you want.
```

This allows you to for example ingest observability data from a SaaS-Database that might be a dependency of one of your workloads on a Giant Swarm managed cluster. Or you could explore the observability platforms data from your own, remote Grafana instance or any other observability tooling.

**Note:** At this point the `observability platform API` only allows the ingestion of logs and events. The ingestion of metrics will follow in a later release. Keep an eye on our [changes and releases]({{< relref "/changes/observability-platform/" >}}) or this document for updates.

The `observability platform API`s main objectives are to:

> * provide secure access to our observability platform from outside of Giant Swarm managed clusters.

Author: You're right, I removed this line and updated the next one.

* enable you to ingest and access observability data from anywhere.
* sanitize (sampling, relabelling, etc.) observability data to align with our general data standards in the observability platform.
* support for the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP).

## How it works : a global overview

> The `observability platform API` generally consists of different ingress components that use a shared host based on your Giant Swarm Installation's base domain and an OIDC provider to allow secure read or write access to the observability platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `observability platform API` consists of different ingress components that use a shared host based on your Giant Swarm Installation's base domain and an OIDC provider to allow secure read or write access to the observability platform.
```

> Additionally for the write path of the API we use a specifically tuned [Grafana Alloy](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/) instance, ensuring the use of OLTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the write path of the API uses a specifically tuned [Grafana Alloy](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/) instance, ensuring the use of OLTP.
```

You can see the overall architecture of the API in the following diagram:

![api architecture](./observability-platform-api-graph.png)

> **Important:** As the `observability platform API` uses an OIDC provider to authenticate requests against it you first need to provide the details of an OIDC provider to use for the APIs authentication. We will then setup the `observability platform API` accordingly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** As the `observability platform API` uses an OIDC provider to authenticate requests against it you first need to provide the details of an OIDC provider to use for the APIs authentication. We will then setup the `observability platform API` accordingly.
```
